---
layout: project
title: Virginia Tech Bio-Inspired Robotic Seagull
date: September 2013 - May 2014
image: http://i1290.photobucket.com/albums/b525/Josh_Marino/VT_bird_zps9wb7lz2f.png
---

## Overview
As my senior design project, I was on the bio-inspired robotic seagull team with 10 others. This was a continuation project from previous years' teams. When we started work on the robotic bird, the previous year's team had created a design for the exoskeleton. We redesigned the exoskeleton by greatly increasing the strength profile, selecting a new motor, and increasing the efficiency of the motor by adding rotational springs. FEA work was performed for designing the airfoils used on the wings, as well as determining the necessary amplitude of the wing tip cycle. With these results, the controls team (of which I was part of) helped determine the flap cycle as a function of the rotational DOF joints. We then used an Arduino Mega2560 to send PWM commands to have the wing and wing tip follow these fuctions ot maximize lift and thrust.
 

### Robotic Model
I was responsible early on for creating a robotic model of a seagull, with 5 DOF, using Denavit-Hartenburg convention, located [here](http://s1290.photobucket.com/user/Josh_Marino/media/VT_bird_robotic_model_zpsfqurk7fx.png.html). The wings included a 1 DOF rotational joint in the vertical direction attached to a 2 DOF rotational joint in the vertical direction and horizontal direction (backsweep angle), lastly attached to another rotational joint to control the wing tip rotation about the x-axis. This model was used for preliminary calculation of motor torque required, and to optimize the wing tip trajectory compared to a paper presented by Dr. Liu.

### Wiring Harness
A wiring harness was created from an empty breadboard to convert power from a battery pack to be accessible with the Arduino Mega2560, brushless DC motor, and PWM control of 6 servomotors. Located [here](http://i1290.photobucket.com/albums/b525/Josh_Marino/70163e5c-be0b-4156-a6e6-986997bc2c28_zpsibvti2dm.png) is a picture of the harness created. Located at the top is the power from the LiPo battery pack after being seperated for the breadboard and Arduino Mega2560. This is then passed through a capacitor and 5V regulators, which powers the 6 servomotors (2 on each regulator).

### Wing Tip Trajectory Optimization


### Controls
